---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 6
published: true
title:  "Week 6 – Build and Run Automation"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am February 9, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 6"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
    - due-date: "5pm February 11, 2022"
      name: "Lab Report 3"
      url: "/week/week6/#week-6-lab-report"
    - due-date: "5pm February 11, 2022"
      name: "Updates to Lab Report 2"
notes:
    - url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YuNmThN9Nwf_VVrmorVuCFEY8ymb8qyc"
      name: "Monday 1pm"
    - url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Zn3YB78lrLfKoYkJh0bk5Ed2rQNV4zzZ"
      name: "Monday 2pm"
current: true
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links

### Due This Week

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### Notes from Class

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% endfor %}

## Lab Tasks

**Most of these instructions are Mac/Linux only; run on ieng6 if you have a
windows machine.**

As usual, this will be in some flux until the lab time on Wednesday, but you can
use it to look ahead and think about what you'll need to do.

The lab report task will be posted Monday evening and will be firm once posted,
so you can get started on it before Wednesday!

### Setup

Have a member of your group clone a fresh copy of `markdown-parse` that reflects
the work you've done so far as a group. Once they have the fresh copy and have
opened it in VScode:

- Start a timer
- Have them run the tests
- Have them run `MarkdownParse` from the command-line with `test-file.md` as input
- Stop the timer

How long did it take to do this? Where did they look up the necessary commands?
Did they make any typos or small mistakes? Were the commands in their command
history?

### Makefile

Create a `makefile` for your fork of `markdown-parse`. Your `makefile` should have a
target, `test`, that:

- Rebuilds the `.class` files using `javac` if the corresponding `.java` file
has updated
- Runs the tests after rebuilding the necessary `.class` files

Create any other targets you need for this; refer to the notes from class on
Monday to help.

**Write in notes**: Show what the makefile does for `make test`:

- When you have _no_ `.class` files in the directory (delete them if necessary)
- When you have both of the `.class` files present, then make a change to
`MarkdownParse.java`, save, and run. How many commands run, and why? Justify why
each is necessary.
- When you have both of the `.class` files present, then make a change to
`MarkdownParseTest.java`, save, and run. How many commands run, and why? Justify
why each is necessary.

**Write down in notes**: Add the makefile in a commit, push it, and note a link
to the commit in your notes.

**Write down in notes**: Then, change the Github Action on your repository to
just use `make test` instead of running multiple commands. Take a screenshot of
the action succeeding while using `make test` and link to the action's output.

### Bash Scripting

Create a file called `mdparse` in the current directory.

In it, add this text:

```
java -cp lib/junit-4.13.2.jar:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:. MarkdownParse $1
```

Then, from the command line, run:

```
bash mdparse test-file.md
```

then run

```
bash mdparse test-file2.md
```

**Write down in notes**: What does the `$1` mean? If you're struggling to define
this, add the line `echo $1` to `mdparse` and re-run it. What do you see?

A project will often define one or more scripts for command-line programs to
avoid having to type out, or deal with, a long classpath or other configuration.

Note that this is _distinct_ from the `makefile` for a good reason – it's not
nearly so easy to pass a command-line argument to a `makefile`, and they are
indeed not built for that purpose.

**Write down in notes:** Commit and push `mdparse` to the repository, and note
*the commit link in your notes document so everyone can find it later.

### Improvement

Have a member of your group clone a fresh copy of `markdown-parse` that reflects
the work you've done so far as a group and includes the `makefile` and
`mdparse`. Once they have the fresh copy and have opened it in VScode:

- Start a timer
- Have them run the tests (use your `makefile`!)
- Have them run `MarkdownParse` from the command-line with `test-file.md` as input (use your `mdparse` bash script!)
- Stop the timer

How long did it take to do this? Where did they look up the necessary commands?
Did they make any typos or small mistakes? Were the commands in their command
history?

### What an Autograder Does

Autograders are often built out of a combination of test files, makefiles, and
(bash) scripts.

Imagine that `markdown-parse` was a class assignment, and you were the tutor
designing an automatic grader for it. You get this grading repository from the
last quarter's staff:

[https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/grade-markdown-parse](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/grade-markdown-parse)

Clone `grade-markdown-parse` and try running the provided `grade.sh` script on
your team's `markdown-parse` repository (it takes a git repo URL as a
command-line argument).

**Write down in notes** What does `grade.sh` do? What questions do you have
about it?

A typical setup for autograders on e.g. Gradescope is that a script like this
one runs, and students are shown the output of that script (there's some extra
work that goes into turning the output into points for Gradescope, but let's
focus on the output for now.)

Think about:

- What gets printed out for the student? What if there is a compile error? What
about a failed test?
- Does `grade.sh` you rely on the `makefile` in the student directory? Should you?
- What if the student's repository is missing a file? Can you improve the error message in that case?
- What if the student's repository is missing the `lib` directory? Can/should you make that work?
- What kind of output might be discouraging or unhelpful to the student?
- What kind of output might encourage the student to write more of their own tests?

Remember: You can use all the commands you're familiar with, like `cd`, `git`,
`make`, `cp`, and so on, in bash scripts. You can also use `if` statements from
class, and feel free to Google! Some useful (or not!) searches might be:

- “check if file exists bash”
- “how to copy whole directory”
- “how to make new directory bash”

**Write down in notes**: Discuss if this made you learn anything about how
autograders might be running on your code in classes like CSE 8B, 11, and 12!

**Write down in notes**: What new `bash` commands or techniques did you learn, if any?

**Write down in notes**: Make sure to save your changes (if any) that you made to `grade.sh`!


## Week 6 Lab Report

Choose one of the Group Choice Options (1-3) from [week
5](https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week5/#group-choice-1-streamline-ssh-configuration).
Complete it for yourself (if you haven't already), and take the relevant
screenshots listed below for your choice. Create a post with a few sentences of
description about each. Do this for only **one** of these options for your lab
report.

Create it in a new file called `lab-report-3-week-6` so that it gets a new page
on your site, and add a link to the page to the index of your site. You will
submit it to Gradescope as usual as a few links.

- [Streamlining ssh Configuration](https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week5/#group-choice-1-streamline-ssh-configuration)
  - Show your `.ssh/config` file, and how you edited it (with VScode, another
  program, etc)
  - Show the `ssh` command logging you into your account using just the alias
  you chose.
  - Show an `scp` command copying a file to your account using just the alias
  you chose.
- [Setup Github Access from ieng6](https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week5/#group-choice-2-set-up-github-access-from-ieng6)
  - Show where the public key you made is stored on Github and in your user
  account (screenshot)
  - Show where the private key you made is stored on your user account (but not
  its contents) as a screenshot
  - Show running `git` commands to commit and push a change to Github while
  logged into your ieng6 account
  - Show a link for the resulting commit
- [Copy whole directories with `scp -r`](https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week5/#group-choice-3-copy-whole-directories-with-scp--r)
  - Show copying your whole markdown-parse directory to your ieng6 account
  - Show logging into your ieng6 account after doing this and compiling and
  running the tests for your repository
  - Show (like in the [last step of the first lab](https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week1/#part-7-making-remote-running-even-more-pleasant)) combining `scp`, `;`,
  and `ssh` to copy the whole directory and run the tests in one line.

It's fine if you've done more than one of these, and, for example the alias from
your ssh setup shows up in the third step when copying. Make it clear which one
you've chosen.
