---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 1
published: true
title:  "Week 5 – It Works on My Machine"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am February 2, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 5"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
    - due-date: "5pm February 4, 2022"
      name: "Skill Demonstration 1"
      url: "/week/week5/#skill-demonstration-1"
current: true
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links

### Due This Week

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### To Watch/Read

## Lab Tasks

As usual, some of the lab tasks could change a bit before Wednesday, but the
general outline is here.

Note that the _skill demonstration_ description is firm, and we'll only add
clarifications and extra information, not change the task, at this point.

Today is a bit “potpourri” and a bit “choose your own adventure.” There are a
few short things I want to make sure everyone does, and then a few _options_ for
how to spend your time. These include some cool tips and tricks that might help
you out in the future, some situations that students have run into explicitly in
class, and a space to chat about what you're doing for your skill demo.

Do the **required tasks**, then as a group pick some of the others to try.  If
you have time, do them all!

### Required Task – Synchronize Your Group Work

You've all done some work either in the same repository or in different
repositories over the last few labs. Take some time to make sure everyone has
the most up-to-date version of the `markdown-parse` you're working on as a
group. You could do this in a few ways; figure out which strategy works best for
your group! For example, you might:

- Put all links to Github repositories in your shared notes doc
- Have one person add all the tests + fixes from the other repository to their
repository
- Have everyeone else copy that work back to their own copy
- Have everyone pull/clone their copy and make sure they can run the tests

**Write in notes**: Include screenshots from each group member getting it all to
work.

### Required Task – Setup Github Actions on a Repository

In class on Monday, we saw how to create a Github Action that would run our
tests. Refer to that video. Set up a Github Action that runs your JUnit tests
from last week. (You can see how it was set up here:
[https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/markdown-parse](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/markdown-parse)).

Commit and push a failing test. How does it show up on Github? Do you get any
other notifications?

Commit and push a fix to the test. How does it show up on Github? Do you get any
other notifications?

**Write in notes**: Take screenshots of and copy links to the output from the
above steps.

### Required Task – Improve `markdown-parse`

In the past few labs, you worked on adding tests and improving `markdown-parse`.

Do this once more – add one new **failure-inducing input**, add it as a JUnit
test, then commit and push with the failing output in the commit message.

Then, come up with a fix/improvement to the code to address this case while
still succeeding on all the previous test cases. Commit and push the change.

**Write in notes**: Add the links to the commits you made above.


### Group Choice 1 – Set up Github Access from ieng6

... coming before Wednesday, but based on [this tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account) ...

### Group Choice 2 – Streamline `ssh` Configuration

... coming before Wednesday, but based on [answers like this one](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10197559/ssh-configuration-override-the-default-username) ...

### Group Choice 3 – Copy Whole Directories with `scp -r`

We've often been working with entire _directories_ of files (like with `lib/`).

... combing before Wednesday, but based on [answers like this one](https://serverfault.com/questions/264595/can-scp-copy-directories-recursively) ...

### Group Choice 4 – Discuss Strategies for Skill Demo Video

Have a conversation about tips, techniques, and strategies for your first skill
demonstration video! The sample video and task is below. Feel free to ask
questions about it on Piazza.

## Skill Demonstration 1

For your first skill demonstration video, you will record a screencast of
yourself (using Zoom is one good way) demonstrating some of the concrete skills
you learned in the first 4 weeks of the course.

### Task

In the video, show:

- Your face + a photo ID (that's the only time you have to show your face)
- Creating a new repository on Github
- Creating a file with a Java class
- Creating another file with a JUnit test for a method in that class, the test
must *fail* initially
- Add any code/libraries needed to make the JUnit test run
- Commiting all of the code/libraries required for running that test
- Running the test in your `cs15l` course-specific account
- Fix the test so it *passes*, then run it again on your `cs15l1` account and
commit/push the changes (you can commit/push and run the update in any order)

### Constraints and Examples

You must do this all in one take (you can't stitch together multiple videos) and
the video needs to be less than 15 minutes. Probably your first try won't be 15
minutes – you may have to practice several times to get the process down to 15
minutes; you are free to ask for any help you need in getting your own process
down to that time!

The classes and method you create can be anything, and you could copy/paste
their contents from somewhere, but you have to create the files as part of your
video.

Similarly, you have to create a new repository as part of the video, perform all
commits as part of the video, show the tests running as part of the video, and
so on.

It's up to you how to run the test in your `cs15l` account:

- You could `scp` the relevant files after they are created and/or updated
- You could `ssh` into your account and clone the repository, then `pull` on updates
- You could do something else that you prefer

Here's an example of Joe doing the task:

[https://youtu.be/5JsG06Dz-tc](https://youtu.be/5JsG06Dz-tc)


### Submission

The video must be submitted by **5pm Friday, February 4**.

Upload your video file to the Skill Demonstration 1 - Video assignment on
Gradescope. Make sure to try uploading well in advance of the deadline for two
reasons:

1. Make sure that you aren't recording an extremely large/high-definition video;
there are some (reasonable) file-size limits
2. Make sure you have time to upload the video

If something goes wrong for you uploading near the deadline (for example, you
only have a link to a video instead of an actual video to upload for some
reason), upload a README file explaining the situation to the best of your
ability instead of the video itself.

Once submitted, you should be able to see the video file you uploaded and check
that it plays within Gradescope. Please do so!
