---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 7
published: true
title:  "Week 8 – Debuggers"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am February 23, 2021"
      name: "Quiz 8"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
    - due-date: "5pm February 25, 2021"
      name: "Lab Report 4 (Week 8)"
      url: "https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/week/week8/#week-8-lab-report"
    - due-date: "5pm February 25, 2021"
      name: "Updates to Lab Report 3 (Week 6)"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
    - name: "Monday 1pm"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1W6AgudjwDFJOWsM4hoBR1Lz0w5bb0ct7"
    - name: "Monday 2pm"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xKvQgcVXdBUB7Qj0h2Psd2xDd4TB-EbW"
    - name: "Monday 3pm"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lobaN3IpIMQ4HE8WuidJ3UI6Ju6wk16J"
current: true
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links

### Due This Week

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### To Watch/Read

- Videos on `jdb`:
    - [Debuggers and `jdb`](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Olg_U0Su_I)
    - [`jdb` and Infinite Loops](https://youtu.be/AFkUAwvPTGA)

## Lab Tasks

### Editing at the Command Line

**Everyone** should do this; it's skill practice that you all need.

Log into ieng6. Run the command `vimtutor`. Set a timer for 15 minutes.

Complete the first two lessons (go past lesson 2 if you can in 15 minutes).
Really do the exercises!

Then quit the tutor, clone (or pull if you've already cloned) **your** copy of
`markdown-parse` onto ieng6. Make sure you can use `make test` to build it and
run your tests.

Still on your own, open the test file by giving it as an argument to `vim`, like
`vim MarkdownParseTest.java` (you might need to `cd` into the repository
directory first). Add a test using the vim editing commands you learned, then
save, quit, and rerun the tests.

You've just done programming entirely on ieng6; you didn't need VScode at all,
just a terminal!

As a group, discuss and **write in notes**:

- What were two things you thought were annoying about using Vim? Be specific.
- What were two things you thought were cool about using Vim? Be specific.

### Using a Debugger

Do this part as a group, while logged into someone's account on `ieng6`.

1. Make a fresh clone of [https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/markdown-parse](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/markdown-parse)
2. In the checkout, run `make test`. Notice that one test fails.
3. Use `jdb` with `MarkdownParse` to run _just that markdown file_ from the command line using the `main` method of `MarkdownParse`. Take use `jdb` commands to get the following information and take screenshots of it:
    - The stack trace when the exception is happening
    - The local variables in `getLinks` when the exception is happening
4. Next, use `jdb` to run the JUnit tests. It should be similar to the `java`
command in the `makefile`. You can refer to the lecture videos for a good way to
do this. Again, use `jdb` commands to find:
    - The stack trace when the exception is happening
    - The local variables in `getLinks` when the exception is happening

Then, diagnose and fix the bug so that all the tests pass. Make a commit with
the fix and push it, then link to the commit in your notes.


Write down in notes answers to these additional questions:

- What is information that you were able to get via `jdb` that you would be
unable to get via the stack trace of the exception?
- What are some pros and cons of using `jdb` to get information vs. adding print
statements to do so?
- Discuss the `findCloseParen` method – are there other places in parsing
markdown where a method like this may be useful?


### More Debugger Uses

Switch to another student to screenshare, still using `ieng6`.

Change `findCloseParen` so that it has an infinite loop (for example, remove the
increment `closeParen++`, or change the condition). Re-run `make test` and
verify that a test is in an infinite loop.

Practice using `jdb` with `suspend` to pause the program and show the stack
trace during the loop. You should be able to identify:

- Which test is triggering the infinite loop
- Which line the program stopped on when the program was `suspend`ed
- What the current values of all the variables are in `getCloseParen` at the
moment the program suspended

Take a screenshot or copy/paste of your `jdb` session and indicate in your notes
each of the three items above and how your `jdb` session informs you of that.


## Week 8 Lab Report

Consider the following three markdown snippets:

### Snippet 1

```
`[a link`](url.com)

[another link](`google.com)`

[`cod[e`](google.com)

[`code]`](ucsd.edu)
```

### Snippet 2

```
[a [nested link](a.com)](b.com)

[a nested parenthesized url](a.com(()))

[some escaped \[ brackets \]](example.com)
```

### Snippet 3

```
[this title text is really long and takes up more than 
one line

and has some line breaks](
    https://www.twitter.com
)

[this title text is really long and takes up more than 
one line](
    https://ucsd-cse15l-w22.github.io/
)


[this link doesn't have a closing parenthesis](github.com

And there's still some more text after that.

[this link doesn't have a closing parenthesis for a while](https://cse.ucsd.edu/



)

And then there's more text
```

For **each** snippet, add a test both to **your** implementation of
markdown-parse, _and_ the implementation you reviewed. Run the tests and show
the results of running the tests on each. This means you should add a total of
**6** test methods (3 to your implementation and 3 to the one you reviewed).

This means you will need to clone and run both your implementation and the one
you reviewed, make some small edits, and run them both.

Your report should include:

- A link to your markdown-parse repository and a link to the one you reviewed
- For each test above:
    - Decide on what it _should_ produce by using either VScode preview or [the CommonMark demo site](https://spec.commonmark.org/dingus/)
    - Showing the code in `MarkdownParseTest.java` for how you turned it into a test
    - For **your implementation**, the corresponding output when running the
    tests; if it passed, say so. If it didn't pass, show the specific part of
    the JUnit output that shows the test failure.
    - For **the implementation you reviewed**, the corresponding output when running the
    tests; if it passed, say so. If it didn't pass, show the specific part of
    the JUnit output that shows the test failure.
- Answer the following questions with 2-3 sentences each:
    - Do you think there is a small (<10 lines) code change that will make your
    program work for snippet 1 and all related cases that use inline code with
    backticks? If yes, describe the code change. If not, describe why it would
    be a more involved change.
    - Do you think there is a small (<10 lines) code change that will make your
    program work for snippet 2 and all related cases that nest parentheses,
    brackets, and escaped brackets? If yes, describe the code change. If not,
    describe why it would be a more involved change.
    - Do you think there is a small (<10 lines) code change that will make your
    program work for snippet 3 and all related cases that have newlines in
    brackets and parentheses? If yes, describe the code change. If not, describe
    why it would be a more involved change.


If you're using a direct clone to `ieng6`, you might find it useful to give an
extra argument to `git clone` that specifies which directory to clone into, for
example:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w22/markdown-parse markdown-parse-target-directory
```

Add your lab report as `lab-report-4-week-8` within the same Github pages lab
reports repository you've been using all quarter, and include all of the
elements above.
