---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 3
published: true
title:  "Week 3 – Incremental Programming and Debugging"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am January 19, 2021"
      name: "Quiz 3"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
current: true
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links

## TODO

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## To Watch/Read

- Brief Video on Github Issues: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LuzJ-ZoL3qs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LuzJ-ZoL3qs)
    - Feel free to ask questions about it on Piazza!
    - You should expect to get feedback this way some time in the next week (by Jan 25)
- Read these two articles by Julia Evans (one summarized in a comic below):
    - [When debugging, your attitude matters](https://jvns.ca/blog/debugging-attitude-matters/)
    - [How I Got Better at Debugging](https://jvns.ca/blog/2015/11/22/how-i-got-better-at-debugging/)
- Read this article by John Regehr: [How to Debug](https://blog.regehr.org/archives/199)
    - You don't need to know what all the technical tools are in these readings (debuggers, systems programming, CSS, divs, etc)
    - From the Regehr article, focus on the vocabulary (symptom, bug, etc)
    - From the Evans article, focus on the vibes

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">when debugging, your attitude matters <br>(or in article form: <a href="https://t.co/UseM2m2WTm">https://t.co/UseM2m2WTm</a>) <a href="https://t.co/lWfXYEvdaX">pic.twitter.com/lWfXYEvdaX</a></p>&mdash; 🔎Julia Evans🔍 (@b0rk) <a href="https://twitter.com/b0rk/status/1249715842708844544?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

## Lab Tasks

**As usual, we provide the lab tasks ahead of time, but they might change or
update before lab starts; these aren't guaranteed to be in their final version
until lab starts at 1pm on Wednesday.**

This week's lab will focus on the process of testing and debugging. There are
lots of ways to go about testing and debugging programs! We will study several
in this course.

Today, we will focus on the process of **incremental development**, in a style
similar to **test-driven development**.

Each lab group will work collaboratively on a programming problem with known
bugs.  The sample programing prompt we will be working with is:

_Write a program that takes a markdown file as a command line argument and then
prints out all of the URLs of the links (but not of images) in that file._

This might be useful for building a references/citations page for a website,
for example.

_Parts of this example were inspired by the first HTML-parsing example in [The
Debugging Book](https://www.debuggingbook.org/html/Intro_Debugging.html)._

### Getting Started

Watch this video together:

_coming soon_

Answer the following questions:

- How many times did the programmer run the program?
- How many times did the programmer use the internet to look up how to do
something?
- What was the largest number of _lines of code_ written in between runs of the
program?
- How many times did the programmer use autocomplete on a variable name? How
many typos do you think this helped avoid?

### Getting and Running the Code

Everyone in your group should make a **fork** of this repository:

_coming soon_

This makes a copy of the repository on your Github. Then, clone the repository
that you forked (not the original) using Github Desktop, and open it in Visual
Studio Code.

If you have Java installed on your computer, make sure you can run it using the
commands from the video. If you don't, use commands to copy the code to your
remote CSE15L account and run the program there.

Make sure everyone can run the examples from the video.

Then, add print statements, look up online, or use your own reasoning as a group
to answer the following questions:

- How many different values does `currentIndex` have when the program is run on
the given example? What are they?
- What is the purpose of the second argument to `indexOf`? What would be
different if it wasn't provided?

### Finding a Breaking Test

The provided code gives reasonable results for the single test the programmer
tried. The programmer should be satisfied with a good start, but not satisfied
with a single test. We will take over from where they left off to test and
complete the program.

Create a _new_ markdown file that tests a different use of links than in the
original. Test the program on that file. Discuss among your group what it means
to test something different.  Try running your new test. What happens? Did it
succeed or not?

Keep trying different content in markdown files until you get something that has
incorrect behavior (an error, an infinite loop, prints the wrong URLs, etc).
As soon as you see incorrect behavior, stop.

Make a commit with the new test file; there should be no edits to the code file.
Copy/paste the unexpected output into the commit message, then make the commit
and push. (If you cloned the original repository instead of your fork, you might
get an error that you cannot push to it; if you do, take the time now to
double-check that you cloned your fork. If you can't push for some reason, make
sure to come to office hours or figure it out on your own later; you can still
make all the _commits_ for the remainder of the lab).

Include links to all of the _individual commits on Github_ of this new test in
your notes document (screenshot instead if you had issues pushing).

**Discuss**: Why bother making a commit at this point? What benefit might that
have in the future? How might it help a staff member who is answering your
question on Piazza?

### Improving the Program

Discuss as a group – why is the program not behaving as expected on the test
file you wrote? How could you fix it?

Work as a group on fixing the program so that:

- The original test still has the same output (the one the programmer initially tried)
- The broken test you wrote has correct output

Remember – this means you need to _keep testing_ on the original test and on the
new one you wrote, until both work.

When you've updated the program to work on both of these cases, make a commit
that should have _just_ the changes to the `.java` file required to make it pass.

### Repeating the Process

Repeat this process for at least 2 more test files that fail for different reasons:

- Create the test file that fails
- Commit/push it with the failing output in a commit message
- Fix the program so it succeeds on that test, and on all previous tests
- Commit/push the fix

Here are some hints for tests you might try:

- Try a file with an image reference
- Try a file that starts with a link
- Try a file that ends with a link
- Try a file with a link in the middle
- Try a file with no links
- Try a file that uses `[]` but not `()`
- Try a file that uses `()` but not `[]`
- Try a file that uses `[]` and `()`, but very far apart in the file

**Discuss**: What techniques did you use to figure out how to fix the program?
Did you insert print statements anywhere? Did someone in your group suggest an
idea that didn't occur to others to try? What was it?

**Write in notes**: Include links to the commits described above for at least
one group member's repository (that way everyone can find it later).